

            Star Trek: Deep Space Nine- “Spiderweb” by Jehan Jaleel 
                            Rating: PG-13
      This story takes place during the fifth season of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine
                              Part I
          Major Kira Nerys entered Ops with a heavy heart, there were many
      problems on her mind. The biggest concern at the moment was the recent
      Dominion/Cardassian alliance which threatened the alpha quadrant and
      especially Bajor. Now that Bajor’s deadliest enemies had joined forces, Kira’s
      home planet faced a very grim future indeed she thought as she sat at her post
      in Ops.
         Kira did not say a word to the other officers in Ops, rather she just began the
      work of Deep Space Nine’s commanding officer. Kira was in charge of the
      station now that Captain Sisko was away overseeing repairs done on the
      Defiant at Starbase 112. Neither Sisko nor his ship would be back for a week.
      She missed them both.
        The Defiant was one of the most powerful ships in the quadrant, and DS9
      was always more vulnerable to attack when it was away, these days the
      possibility of a Dominion attack seemed more and more likely. Kira also
      wished that Sisko would return soon, because she hated the extra work. Fear of
      Dominion attack, Dukat’s recent betrayal, Odo confessing his love for her, all
      this made Kira too depressed to run the station.
         She was glad when Dax interrupted her and said “Kira, you should take a
      look at this.”
      “What is it Jadzia?” Kira asked, as she too looked at Dax’s monitor.
      “I am picking up a subspace echo,” Dax replied “It could be anything from
      natural stellar phenomena to a ship’s warp signature.”
      “Well at least it would give us something to do, let’s check it out”
      “I am getting more information now,” Dax said “it is definitely not natural.
      Looks like a subspace transmission of some sort. It’s  very weak and distorted.”
      “Can you filter it out?” Kira asked.
        Instead of hearing Dax’s reply, Kira heard the message itself which answered
      her question. It was an automated Federation distress call, and it was so weak
      it was hard to make out. But what Kira did hear troubled her.
      “This is the Federation starship Barkman, we have been attacked by Jem’Hdar
      fighters, our main power has failed. Our main power has failed, we require
      imm ….”
                                                       Part II
        There was a time, not long ago when Julian Bashir would have been
      overjoyed to be called to the briefing room for a dangerous mission. That was
      when he had first arrived on this station, now that he was older and had
      realized how dangerous the universe can be he was not so enthusiastic. In fact ,
      he almost wished he was not walking to the briefing room right now.
         Bashir entered the room and saw that all the other senior officers except
      Sisko and O’Brien were present. They all had solemn expressions on their
      faces, then again there was not much to smile about these days anyway. Kira
      was at the head of the table, in Sisko’s absence and Bashir took his seat.
      “Glad to see you could make it Doctor,” Kira said “Fifteen minutes ago we
      received a distress call from the USS Barkman, they were attacked Jem’Hdar
      fighters.”
      “The Barkman is a Miranda class starship with a crew compliment of fifty
      three last assigned to map the Trinson nebula,” said Worf.
      “But that is nowhere near Cardassian space,” Bashir offered.
      “We know,” Kira replied “and if the Barkman was indeed attacked it could
      signify a new Dominion offense. The Trinson nebula is nowhere near
      anybody’s space, and closest Federation or allied outpost to the Barkman is
      DS9.”
      “Major, you can’t seriously expect us to mount some kind of rescue,” Bashir
      said ” Both the Defiant and General Martok’s ship are away. All we have now
      are runabouts, surely there are some starships in the area that could go to the
      Trinson nebula.”
      “Unfortunately with the Dominion threat of war closer than ever these days, all
      Federation starships have been assigned to protect key homewards and solar
      systems,” Worf said “and the same could be said for our allies in the Klingon
      and Romulan Empires.”
      “So  you want us to take a few runabouts into unknown territory with a
      powerful enemy that is hunting us at every turn”.
      “Not a few runabouts Doctor, one runabout,” Kira replied “I need the rest of
      the runabouts to help protect the station and Bajor now that the Defiant is
      gone.”
      “I like a challenge,” said Worf with a smile “I volunteer for the mission.”
      “Excellent, Dax will be in command and Dr.Bashir will join you as well,” Kira
      said as she got up from her seat “you leave within the hour.”
      “Nothing like being assigned to a suicide mission to liven up your day,” Bashir
      said.
                                     Part III
          Being the commander on this particular mission, Jadzia Dax had to check
      up on some last minute details before she went to the runabout. When she
      finally arrived on the runabout Mahaweli she saw that her entire crew was
      already there, ready for the mission and waiting for their commander.
         Lt.Enrique Alvarez was at the runabout’s helm, he was one of the best
      runabout pilots on the station and Dax wanted him at the helm on this
      particularly dangerous mission. The science station had been left empty for
      her, and next to it Bashir sat in his chair with nothing to do at the moment.
      Then there was Worf who sat at operations, he had an angry look on his face
      and tried to keep himself busy with his console.
         Dax walked up to Worf, put her arms around him and kissed him on the
      cheek. But he just gave her a stern look, which made Dax back away and take
      her seat at the science station. She knew this was not easy for Worf, the threat
      of war had everyone on edge but there was something more. 
        Maybe it was because Kira had put her in command of this mission and not
      Worf even though was the senior officer on the station. Maybe Worf did not
      like taking orders  from a female, especially one that was his lover. Whatever
      his difficulties were Dax thought, he had to deal with it because this was not
      going to be an easy mission. Suddenly Kira voice over the radio interrupted her
      thoughts.
      “Runabout Mahaweli, this is Ops. Pad doors are open and you are free to
      engage your engines.”
      “Acknowledged Ops,” Dax replied “Lt.Alvarez set course for the Trinson
      nebula and engage at maximum warp.”
      “Aye sir,” Alvarez replied and as his finger danced on the console, the
      runabout responded and leapt forward into the depths of space and all the
      adventure and peril that lay await.
        Meanwhile, on board the station Quark the bartender waited impatiently as
      his brother worked on the controls for the holosuite. It seemed to Quark like he
      had been standing there waiting for Rom to finish his work forever. Quark had
      no time for this, he had a bar to run and customers to look after, not to mention
      all the people waiting for this holosuite.
      “Will you hurry up,” Quark snarled in his ever detestable tone.
      “I am going as fast as I can brother, besides you are not the only one who has
      somewhere to go. I was supposed to meet Letta over an hour ago.”
      “I don’t care about Bajoran wife,” Quark replied “You know what I don’t have
      the patience for this. Just fix the holosuite and go back to her”
         With that statement Quark began to make his exit. He was almost to the
      doors when something happened. Suddenly the exit doors disappeared, and
      were replaced by trees. Then the walls turned into trees, and the entire
      holosuite became some kind of forest.
      Something had gone with holosuite, Quark thought, again.
                                                        Part IV
          The bright  pink and blue colors of the Trinson nebula against the vast
      darkness of space looked beautiful thought Jadzia Dax from the cockpit of the
      runabout. The Mahaweli had just dropped out of warp and was now
      approaching the nebula at impulse power. But Dax knew that there was
      nothing beautiful about the possible dangers that waited for them inside the
      nebula.
         They had made through their entire journey from DS9 without encountering
      any Jem’Hdar or Cardassian vessels, but Dax knew that the most likely place
      for an engagement was inside the nebula. Because there was a good chance
      that whoever attacked the Barkman was still in there with her.
      “Do you have anything yet Worf,” Dax asked from her station.
      “Nothing yet, there is too much interference from the nebula. We have to get
      closer.”
      “The gases in that nebula are strong enough to disrupt our shields and
      communications as well as our sensors,” said Dax as she read the information
      on her console “But we are no help to the Barkman sitting out here.”
      “Jadzia,” Bashir began “the odds that the Barkman could have survived both a
      Jem’Hdar attack and that nebula are one in forty eight at best I calculate.”
      “Spare me your genetically advanced statistical outcomes Julian,” she replied
      “If there is any chance the crew of the Barkman has survived we must
      investigate.”
      “I know. Just wanted to let you know the odds against us.”
      “Lt.Alvarez,” Dax said “take us into the nebula.”
          In a matter of minutes those bright colors of the nebula filled all the
      windows of the Mahaweli. The endless vastness of the nebula engulfed the
      small runabout, as it traveled seamlessly through the gases. Dax saw that all
      the viewscreens on board the runabout became distorted as proof that the
      sensors were not working. 
      “Our shields are gone too,” said Worf from his station stating the obvious.
      “No sensors, no shields. We will have to find the Barkman using visual
      contact, Don’t count on weapons being that much use since we can’t get target
      lock and will have to fire manually,” said Dax.
      “Well Worf, you wanted a challenge,” said Bashir “You got one.”
                                                                 Part V
          “Rom, Rom, ROM,” Quark yelled to the illusionary forest around him but
      there was no answer. This must have been the hundredth time that he had
      called out for his brother and only heard the silence of the forest Quark
      thought. He was furious at his brother, not only was being trapped in this
      holosuite a torutores experience but Quark’s bar was probably suffering as well
      without him there to tend for it.
         This is not the first time that this accident has happened. People had been
      trapped on holodecks before, Quark never expected himself to be one of those
      people. Every command he had yelled to the computer to shut down had
      failed. Efforts to contact security or anyone to get him out of here had also
      failed. Worst of all, blood that  Quark spilled after pricking his finger on a
      thorn proved that the holosuite safeties were not working either. Typical.
         As Quark walked on into unexplored territory, he saw that the forest around
      began to grow thicker. The path that he had been walking on all this time seem
      to diminish, and it was harder to walk through the outgrowth of shrubs and
      bushes. He also saw that the sun was setting and almost all the light was gone.
        Quark was both tired and disheartened. His legs began to ache and his eyes
      could not see the path before him anymore. He found a rock and sat down.
      “How could this possibly get any worse,” he asked himself. And then from out
      of the trees his answer came.
         It leaped out of a group of trees some distance form where Quark was sitting.
      But it was moving very fast and straight towards him, he did not even wait to
      see what the creature was but just ran.
         Quark ran through the forest with all the speed his little legs could muster.
      He could not see where he was going, but it did not matter. That terrible
      creature was right behind him and Quark had to get away. He could hear the
      creature’s footsteps and it’s howl and the seemed to get closer every second.
        Then suddenly there was a bark from a fallen tree which Quark did not see
      until the last minute. By the time he did notice the bark, it was too late. He
      tripped on it and fell on his stomach, he turned around and saw the creature’s
      eyes in the dark forest coming ever closer. The creature leaped and was about
      to grab Quark when a bright flash of light struck the creature and it fell to the
      ground.
        Quark knew that the light was from phaser fire, he thought station security
      had found him and he was rescued. But then he saw it was only his brother
      Rom coming out of the  forest. 
      “You idiot, what have you done to my holosuite,” Quark said upon seeing his
      brother as he rose to his feet.
      “That is how you thank me for saving your life brother,” Rom replied “Besides
      I didn’t do anything, this is all your fault.”
      “My fault, how is it my fault?”
      “A holosuite is a very advanced piece of machinery Quark. You are supposed
      to take care of it, now over the years I have been patching your holosuite up
      anyway I could. But without proper upgrades and parts which you never spent
      the latinum for, something like this was bound to happen. I suppose it is irony
      or even the will of the prophets that this happened the when you were in the
      holosuite, so I ask you again brother whose fault is it.”
      “All right,” Quark replied “let’s stop bickering about whose fault this mess is,
      how can you get us out of it?”
      “The only way is to find the holosuite arch,” Rom replied.
      “Okay where is the arch?”
        Rom just pointed to the dark, dangerous and vast forest around them
      “Somewhere out there.”
                                                    Part VI
        In the cabin section of the Mahaweli Dax and Worf sat across each other for
      a quiet lunch. Their search for the Barkman had not gone well, it had been
      over five hours and there was still no sign of her. The runabout was traveling
      at only a quarter of impulse power searching the nebula carefully for the lost
      Starfleet vessel or it’s attackers. Since there was no sign of the latter, Dax
      thought perhaps it was not that bad after all.
         Dax then looked across the table and saw Worf. She  could see that his
      solemn mood had not improved because he did not eat his food, rather he just
      drove his fork into the meat. One thing about Klingons she thought, you can
      always tell when they are upset.
      Maybe that is one reason why she loved him so much, she had to break the ice
      between them.
      “So I hear the Captain and Chief O’Brien won’t be back for at least another
      week,” she said.
      “Repairs on the Defiant are taking longer than expected,” Worf replied
      unemotionally, not even bothering to make eye contact.
      “Well what do you expect after the way she has been treated this past two
      years. One impossible battle after another and all we did was patch her up for
      next day. I will be suprised if they ever get the Defiant as good as new.”
      Worf just grunted in reply, obviously in no mood for idle conversation.
      “What is the matter with you Worf?” Dax asked “Is it because Kira put me on
      command over you.”
      “Jadzia, I prefer not talk about it. I am done with my food, let us go see what
      the doctor and Lt.Alvarez have found,” Worf said and with that got up and
      made his way to the front of the ship.
         Jadzia loved Worf but he could just be so stubborn sometimes. She then got
      up herself and disposed of both their meals in the replicator. After checking
      her face in the mirror, she headed for the control room herself. There she
      found Alvarez and Bashir busy at work and Worf watching over them.
      “What do you have so far Julian?” she asked as she went up to his console.
        Bashir tapped his keypad and a computer grid of the nebula appeared on the
      screen “The Trinson nebula is larger and more dense than others. It also has a
      powerful star at the center. At the rate which we are going, I calculate it will
      take three days, six hours, and twenty one minutes to search the entire nebula.”
      “Three days in this blasted nebula, searching for a ship which is probably
      space dust already,” grumbled Worf.
      “I wouldn’t speak so soon sir,” Alvarez said “Look.”
          They all turned to the main window of the runabout and looked. First it
      looked like just a shadow in the bright nebula, but as they approached closer
      the silhouette  of a Federation Miranda class starship could easily be seen.
                                                           Part  VII
           The runabout Mahaweli was now directly over the Barkman, scans from
      any distance greater than this was impossible due to interference from the
      nebula. The four member crew of the Mahaweli each sat patient and alert at
      their station.Dax sat at command,  waiting for the scans from the Barkman to
      come in.
      “Is there still no response to our hails Worf?” she asked.
      “None.”
      “There does not seem to be any physical damage to the Barkman,” said Bashir
      from the science station “but I am not getting any power readings or life signs
      from her either. It almost seems…”
      “seems like what Julian?” asked Dax after hearing his voice trail off.
      “Seems like there is interference to our sensors coming from the Barkman
      itself.”
      “I am getting a power build up from the Barkman,” said Worf.
        The entire crew looked at the Barkman from the main window to see a small
      bright light leave the vessel. It did not take them long to realize that it was
      indeed a photon torpedo the Barkman had fired at the runabout. Dax did not
      know why they were being attacked but she did know she had to protect her
      ship.
      “Evasive maneuvers Lt.Alvarez,” Dax shouted “hard to port”.
      “Hard to port aye,” came the reply and the Mahaweli skewed to the right but
      the Barkman had taken them by suprise and they were too close to the starship
      to completely evade the torpedo. It exploded only a few feet from the runabout
      and everyone on board was knocked off their feet.
      “Federation runabout surrender,” came a voice over the open comm channel.
      Dax could not recognize the voice but she knew it was a human female
      speaking.
      “Not on your life,” Dax replied and then turned to Worf “target their engines
      and fire.”
        Worf did not reply instead he just ran to his console at lightning speed, his
      finger slammed the keypad and soon phaser fire lanced out of the Mahaweli
      and hit the much larger starship.
      “Direct hit,” Worf replied.
      “Excellent,” Dax said “Lt.Alvarez get us out of here full impulse.”
         Dax looked at the Barkman and saw that they were not following which
      means Worf did in fact get their engines. She saw that Bashir was still on the
      floor and the last one to get up on his feet.
      “What the HELL just happened,” the doctor shouted.
                                                                 Part VIII
         The thick forest which Quark and Rom had to trek through for three hours
      had given way to an endless desert. At first Quark was glad not having to walk
      thorough the thick of the jungle, the desert was much easier to walk in. But
      then the desert sun started beating down mercilessly and Quark felt very warm
      and very thirsty, soon he found himself wishing for the forest to return.
      “What the hell is going on Rom,” Quark yelled.
      “It seems the holodeck is rotating different programs. Who knows where it will
      take us next,” Rom replied “but relax brother. The arch should be much easier
      to find in this envoirment.”
      “Why couldn’t the program take us to Risa or even an Orion slave girl
      mansion?” Quark complained.
      “The prophets are punishing you for your sins brother. What kind of
      punishment would Risa be?”
      “You are spending too much time with Bajorans Rom, their stupid beliefs are
      beginning to rub off on you”
      “Don’t mock the prophets Quark,” Rom said for the first time with anger in his
      tone.
      “Do you know what religion is Rom, it is one big sham.Written by people a
      long time just to make some cash, I know. Because I found out that is what the
      rules of acquisition were. Just a best selling book, that was so popular it
      became a way of life for an entire race.”
      Rom just shook his head in reply.
      “All the prophets I call on you to harm me, harm me. I have been very bad,
      punish me,” Quark yelled to the desert.
        Suddenly Quark saw figures arise from the dunes. They were large
      humanoids and they carried big guns, he could not make out what they were
      because they had masks and wore robes. They came from everywhere and soon
      surrounded the foolish Ferengi and his brother.
      “Why can’t you just learn to keep your mouth shut,” Rom said.
                                                                     Part IX
          The runabout Mahaweli cut through the gases of the nebula as it sped away
      from it’s attackers  as fast as it could. Plasma leaked from the left warp nacelle
      , the hull was exposed and a large area on the left side was covered in black
      soot from the damage of the torpedo. But inside the runabout, the crews hearts
      were in even worse shape than the Mahaweli herself.
      “We don’t know what’s going on Julian,” Dax replied to Bashir’s question “all
      we know is that the Barkman attacked us.”
      “But why?” asked Worf.
      “Before we go into that, we have an even more serious problem,” Dax said
      “like the extent of damage to the Mahaweli and how we can get out of here.
      Well Mr.Alvarez how does she look.”
      “The torpedo completely took  out the left warp engine,” Alvarez replied “so
      we can kiss warp power good-bye. There has been some damage to the
      auxiliary systems as well so I don’t know how long we can keep up full
      impulse.”
      “Enough power to get us back to DS9?” Bashir asked.
      “Doctor I don’t even think there is enough to get out of this nebula.”
      “Leaving the nebula would be suicide anyway,” Dax said “once we are out in
      open space the Barkman can pick us off easily. Our only advantage is the
      nebula. At least here the odds are somewhat even.”
      “I disagree,” said Worf “we should leave this blasted nebula as soon as we can.
      If we do run into the Barkman we make a stand.”
      “I am one in command here Mr.Worf,” Dax said and gave her lover a stern
      look.
      “Lt.Alvarez full stop and hold position here. There is something about this
      nebula’s star I think can help us,” Dax said and got to work on the science
      station. Alvarez obeyed his commander and then the three of them just stood
      there and watched as Dax worked on her console.
                                                              Part X
          Bashir noticed as he walked into the cabin section that Worf seemed very
      depressed. The Klingon just stared at the nebula outside with a solemn look on
      his face. The anger that was there before seemed to have gone, and there was
      no  sign of fear in there desperate hour in the Klingon’s eyes, only sadness.
      Bashir knew who the source of Worf’s sadness was, the person who he loved
      more than anyone else.
      “That green trail of plasma out there is like the Mahaweli’s blood,” Bashir said
      “there seems to be a lot of it out there, which can’t be good for us.”
      “This would not have happened had I been in command,” Worf said.
      “You can’t blame her, she did the best she could. All that is left is for us to help
      her get this ship home in one piece.”
      “I would not expect you to understand Doctor,” Worf replied “It is a Klingon
      matter.”
          That last statement made Bashir furious. There was a time not too long ago
      when he would have given anything to have Jadzia Dax by his side and in his
      bed every night. Worf does not realize what he has,  Jadzia’s love is too
      precious to lose on Klingon ideals Bashir thought.  He was about to give the
      Klingon a piece of his mind when the intercom interrupted him, summoning
      them both to the bridge.
          After Dax saw Worf and Bashir enter the room, she punched up the
      computer. The entire crew gathered around her console and a computer image
      of the star at the center of the Trinson nebula came up.
      “There is no way to repair the damage to our runabout,” she began “so we have
      to evade the Barkman until DS9 can launch some kind of rescue. I think our
      best shot lies here in the Trinson nebula star. I am going to take the Mahaweli
      into the star.”
      “Jadzia, are you sure you didn’t bump your head a little too hard during the
      attack,” Bashir said.
      “The plan is to not fully enter the star. But close enough that the Barkman
      would not detect us. We can use a form of metaphysic shielding to protect us
      from the sun’s radiation.”
      “Metaphysic shielding is still highly experimental,” Alvarez offered “even if
      we can get it stable. Where can we come up with enough power to keep it
      running till the rescue comes. We barely have enough power for primary
      systems now with the mains down.”
      “That is where yet another experimental procedure comes to play,” Dax
      continued “Spiderweb is a procedure Dr.Peter Katz invented. It is where a
      small ship or probe can draw raw power to function from a star. The only
      problem was surviving the star’s radiation which we have already solved using
      Dr.Ryega’s metapyhsic shielding.”
      “You want use to take the Mahaweli into the Trinson star and then hold
      position there for maybe days until a rescue comes and use the star itself for
      power,” Bashir said “I think the probabilities that either of these highly
      experimental procedures will work and keep working until rescue comes is…”
      “We don’t want to know Julian,” Dax cut him off  “Mr.Alvarez set course for
      the Trinson star, full impulse.”
                                                            Part XI
          The desert sun which loomed above Quark did not seem to go down even
      though he had been traveling for what seemed like hours now. The strange
      figures in white robes had ordered Quark and his brother to follow them by
      just pointing their guns. Now Quark had been traveling with these desert
      marauders through the dunes of this unforgiving desert. He just wished they
      would reach their destination.
          Quark hated the desert and the heat, he had removed most of the heavy
      ornamental clothing he wore when he first entered the holosuite, but he still as
      if he was going to perish from the heat. 
          Just when all hope seemed lost, the desert raiders lead Quark through one
      more dune at the end of which Quark saw a settlement. The settlement was an
      oasis in the desert, several tents had been placed around a small lake. There
      were also lots of people walking back and forth, more than an oasis in the
      desert, it was almost a village.
         There people walked around without the protective masks, and as he got
      closer Quark could make out what kind of people they were. Their tall slim,
      figures, hair on their heads and light complexion meant only one
      thing-Humans. Always the Homans Quark thought.
           When the people in the oasis caught sight of the two Ferengi, they seemed
      awe-struck and they were all quick to keep their distance, but it almost seemed
      out of respect than fear. Quark then noticed that there were no women or
      children in the settlement that he could see, they were all men who seemed to
      serve as soldiers like the one escorting him or workers who carried digging
      equipment.
          Before Quark could gather anymore information about their captors, he and
      his brother were taken inside the largest tent. Inside it was much cooler and
      Quark was relieved, there were comfortable chairs inside, and a table filled
      with all kinds of food and drink. The guards left the two of them in there, and
      exited the tent.
      “Brother, we have to find a way to get out of here,” Rom whispered in an
      urgent tone as soon as they left.
      “Rom,there is no way we are just going to sneak out in broad daylight, there
      are so many people outside and we are so different from them we’d stick out
      easily,” Quark replied “besides I am dying from this heat. Let us rest here for a
      while.”
      “Need I remind that the holosuite safeties are not working and they could kill
      us for real if they wanted to.”
      “If they wanted us dead, they would have killed us  already. Besides there is an
      even bigger chance we would die from that horrible desert and the heat. Now
      relax for a while, the holosuite will probably switch to another program soon,
      so let us enjoy these desert humans’ hospitality while we can,” Quark said as he
      poured himself a drink.
      “You should listen to your brother Rom,” came a voice from the other end of
      the tent. A figure came out of the shadows and walked towards them, Quark
      could easily tell by her lovely curves that she was female. He couldn’t wait to
      see her face, but when he did he so shocked that he dropped his drink.
      “Kira,” Quark and Rom shouted simultaneously.
                                                          Part XII
      “Major thank goodness you found us,” said Rom as he walked up to the
      woman that was in the tent with them. 
        Quark on the other hand was not so sure this was who so she seemed.
      Everything about this woman from her voice to her clothes to the way she
      walked was so different from Major Kira. And the woman’s reaction to Rom
      confirmed his suspicions.
      “I think you must have mistaken me with someone else, I am sorry to
      disappoint you,” she said in a friendly tone.
      “You have to excuse my brother,” Quark said suddenly “this desert heat has
      gotten to him. Now Rom if you would just wait outside.”
      “But brother…” Rom began.
      “Now!” Quark snapped back and with that Rom made his way to the tent’s exit.
      He then did feel remorse for getting angry at his brother, but these are a
      dangerous people and with the holodeck safeties not working both their lives
      were in real danger. Rom did not fully comprehend the magnitude of their
      situation, so it was up to Quark to get them both out of this predicament.
      “I must apologize for him once again,” he said turning once again to face his
      beautiful companion “I am Quark and you are?”
        The magnificent woman who looked just like Kira smiled in response and
      turned away. She went to the table and began to pour drink into a glass and
      then said “I am known by many names by my people, but  for now you can
      address me at The Intendant.” 
      “Must we be so formal?” Quark asked as he took the drink from her.
      “For now we must,” she replied “that is until you do something for me.”
      “I am sorry, but me and my brother have to find something important in the
      desert. So we have to get going I hope you understand.”
      “Oh but you are not going anywhere my wide eared friend,” she said in a tone
      that was not as friendly as before. The fact that she recognized Quark as alien
      could only meant more trouble.
      “Since you put it that way, I would be happy to help,” Quark lied “what did you
      have in mind.”
      “My men and I were sent here by the Regent Pavos in the land of Arkus which
      is some distance away,” she began “the Regent learned of giant pyramids in
      these deserts, pyramids which were supposed to hold the greatest of treasures
      inside them. He charged me with the task of recovering those treasures.”
      “With all the man power you have and your great intelligence Intendant, that
      should by no problem. What do you need me for?” Quark asked.
       “Now my men have found the pyramid and a week ago I bid five of my best
      warriors to go inside and recover the treasure for me. Two days passed and
      they did not return and so I sent a second group of warriors and they
      disappeared into the great pyramid as well. Even though they would obey my
      every command I wish to send no more warriors in there, for the sole reason
      that it is a waste.”
      “Tough break,” Quark replied.
      “And that is where you come in,” she said as she put down her drink and
      approached him. “I want you to enter the great pyramid and recover the
      treasures for me,” she said as she gently began to stroke the Ferengi’s lobes.
                                                            Part XIII
          Because he was the doctor on this mission, many would say that Bashir was
      the least likely person to man the engineering station of the runabout
      Mahaweli, but he was who Dax had choose because he was the only person
      qualified. Now that the Mahaweli was connected to the Trinson star in a
      Spiderweb, someone had to monitor all the raw power coming from the star
      into the runabout and use it for necessary systems and dump the rest out.
        It was a tedious task indeed thought Bashir as he worked the computer padd
      in front of him. Only an android like the Enterprise’s Commander Data or a
      genetically enhanced human like himself could keep it up. There was more
      than enough power for the runabout flowing from the web that connected it to
      the sun, the problem was controlling that power. 
         Bashir first had to transfer power to the metaphysic shields or else they
      would all perish from the sun’s radiation and heat, he then had to transfer the
      power to life support, sensors and other key functions. Finally he had to send
      all that remaining power back along the web to the sun or the whole runabout
      would overload. He had to keep repeating these steps at a rapid pace until
      rescue arrived or the Barkman gives up her search and leaves the nebula.
          The sensors having been enhanced themselves from all this power began to
      work despite the nebula’s interference. The Barkman could now be see clearly
      as a red dot on the tactical display. They will still some distance away doing a
      random sweep of the nebula searching for the runabout, just like it had been
      done vice versa when the Mahaweli first arrived.
          Even if the Barkman came near the Trinson star, Bashir doubted they would
      spot the runabout because their sensors still did not work. That was not his
      main concern, his main concern was that though he had the hand/eye
      coordination of an android, he himself was not a machine. And there is just so
      long even an Enhanced Human can stay without sleep.
          Meanwhile in the cabin section of the runabout, Dax and Worf sat at a table
      to discuss their situation. Dax told Worf her plan about staying in the
      Spiderweb for about the tenth time, and still he refused. Now all she wanted
      was get some sleep, but Worf was persistent.
      “Dr.Bashir can not maintain the Spiderweb forever,” he said.
      “I know Worf, but Julian is strong and I have faith he can hold out until our
      situation improves.”
      “How can it improve?” Worf asked his voice rising “The Barkman will either
      destroy us without us getting a fair fight or this cursed star which looms above
      will take us in our sleep. We will not die in  battle with honor.”
      “Is that all there is to it. Is honor they only reason you want to leave the
      nebula?” Dax asked “I know it can’t be, Worf  I know you are beyond that.”
      “It is personal,” Worf replied back.
      “Tell me.”
      “No.”
      “I order you to tell me or else we will not leave the Spiderweb.”
      “This is not the way a Klingon’s mate should speak to him,” Worf shouted.
      “I order you Commander!” Dax shouted back.
          Worf’s rage took over him and he hit Dax in the face with all his might. Her
      body was thrown at least five feet and she hit the bulkhead hard, Jadzia felt
      blood trickle down from her lip and smiled. “Computer lock cabin door and
      dim lights,” she said as she licked her own blood and  began to unbutton her
      uniform.
                                                         Part XIV
          As Quark and Rom made their way up yet another dune, they were now
      dressed in the same white robes as the desert raiders they had encountered.
      Though these robes trapped much less heat than his bartender’s suit, the desert
      was already getting to Quark again. Once more he had to travel the treacherous
      sands and bare the unforgiving sun, this time in search of some giant pyramid.
          Kira’s holosuite double who called herself the Intendant had allowed Quark
      and his brother only a few hours rest before she sent him away to recover the
      treasure she had spoken of. She had given directions on how to reach the great
      pyramid which held these treasures and charged him to return with them or
      face certain death. Quark knew that even if he reached this treasure, it was
      only a holosuite image. He only wished the program would change to a
      different setting already so he could leave this damned place.
          That wish was not granted but as Quark stepped over the next dune he saw
      his brother staring in awe. He stood next to Rom to see what was so special,
      and it took his breath away also. The great pyramid loomed below the two
      Ferengi, most of it was buried under the sand but even the portion they saw
      was massive. The top portion was made of stone and at least fifty feet wide,
      the rest of it had sunk underneath the desert sand like an iceberg in the ocean.
      There was an opening at the zenith and a rope descending down.
      “This is madness,” said Quark “Let’s just keep going and hope security rescues
      us or at least the program change before she finds  us.”
      “Be quiet brother,” Rom said as he looked at his tricorder which he had taken
      out to examine the pyramid.
      “Will you forget it? There is probably all kinds of traps in there and they will
      get us just like it got her men with holosuite safeties down.”
      “Yes I knew it,” said Rom with delight.
      “What?”
      “There is a lot of electrical activity down there. Which means there could be
      computers,”
      “So?”
      “Don’t you see. That means the arch could be down there,” said Rom and begin
      to descend the steep dune to reach the pyramid “Let’s go Quark.”
      “Will you get back here? It’s not safe,” Quark shouted and saw his suspicions
      were right again as Rom lost his footing and began to fall into the abyss which
      had already claimed the great pyramid.
                                                       Part XV
          After hours maintaining the Spiderweb, Julian Bashir finally felt as if he had
      lost all his willpower. He had to fight to keep his concentration as sleep began
      to creep up on him. The calculations for the Spiderweb had to be precise, he
      could not even rest his eyes for a second or else the crew of the Mahaweli
      would face certain death. When he finally thought he had lost, when it was
      time he could not fight his human body anymore, that was when the cabin
      doors swooshed open rescuing him.
          Out of the doors stepped Worf and Dax. Their appearance confirmed
      Bashir’s suspicions as to what they were doing all this time. Only a Klingon
      mating ritual could have produced the sounds he had heard from the cabin the
      past few hours. Both of them had messy hair, fluttered uniforms and traces of
      blood on their face. Probably each others. Bashir did not mind because they
      were happy and seemed to have worked out their differences, if anything their
      appearance gave him a reason to stay awake since Alvarez had drifted off into
      sleep hours ago.
      “Julian how far is the Barkman form us?” Dax asked.
      “They are pretty close. Only a five thousand kilometers away,” he replied not
      looking away from his monitor “but I am sure they can’t detect us.”
      “Are they in transporter range?”
      “Yes but why…” Bashir voice trailed off  “you can’t seriously be thinking of
      transporting onto the Barkman, Jadzia.”
      “She is not, but I am going to the Barkman,” Worf said.
      “They tried to kill us Worf, If they catch you on board they will defintely do
      the same to you,” Bashir said.
      “I think not. I recognized the voice from the Barkman during the battle, It was
      Captain Susan Itrail’s. She commands that starship and she was a former lover
      of mine. Besides it is the only way we can find out what is going on.If it comes
      to it, I am also willing to sabotage the Barkman. I can assure  you Doctor that I
      can take care of myself. Now if you will provide some power from the
      Spiderweb to the transporters, I can beam over immediately.”
         Bashir looked at Dax and she just nodded which means she had agreed to
      Worf’s new plan as well. As painful as it might have been to send her lover off
      on this suicide mission she motioned for Julian to activate the transported.
      Worf stepped on the pad.
      “Worf you must know that there are going  to be risks even during transport.
      Our runabout being attached to the Spiderweb and interference from the
      nebula might prevent a stable pattern from forming on board the Barkman,”
      Bashir said.
      “I understand,” Worf replied “before I go I must apologize to both of you for
      the way I have acted during this mission. It was more than just not getting the
      command of the Mahaweli, I loved Susan very much just like I love Jadzia.
      And like Jadzia she did not want the commitment Klingon couples had to go
      through. Susan, Kehleyr, Deanna I had lost so many of my loves because of my
      stubbornness. I was afraid I would lose Jadzia too if I confessed I knew the
      Barkman’s Captain and told of our relationship. Now I know that is not true,
      and I am sorry.”  Silence followed for a few seconds and then Worf said
      “Energize.”
          It was only the light and sound of the transporter that woke Lt.Alvarez from
      his sleep. “Have we been rescued,?” he asked eagerly.
      “Not yet Enrique,” Dax said and made a silent prayer for Worf “Not yet.”
                                                      Part XVI
          Worf materialized in what appeared to be one of the Barkman’s many cargo
      bays. Not only was he thankful he had survived the transport he was also glad
      he had materialized in a room with no people in it. If he had died in transport,
      it would have been in service of his ship and so with honor, he would have
      gone to Stovakohr and met Kahless. So Worf always expected a honorable
      death in his missions and never feared it, but ever since he had met Jadzia in
      the world of the living, Stovakohr didn’t look quiet so inviting as it used to.
         Worf quickly ran to the nearest access panel he could find. He asked the
      computer to show a schematic of the Barkman, he already knew the basic
      outline of this class starship but he had needed more information if he was to
      have any hope of sabotaging it, not to mention keeping out of sight. A detailed
      map of the ship appeared along with the following information
                                             USS Barkman, NCC-1885-B, Miranda Class
                                             Commissioned: Stardate 37912
                                             Commanding officer: Captain Susan Itrail
                                             Crew Compliment: 73
                                             Current Assignment: Charting Trinson Nebula
          This confirms two things- the Barkman’s fake distress call and  the attack on
      the Mahaweli are part of some rouge operation because as far as Starfleet is
      concerned they are supposed to be mapping this nebula, that’s it. It also
      confirms that the voice he heard during the battle was indeed Susan. He still
      found it hard to believe she would betray the Federation. Could she have been
      forced into this by the Dominion? Could that not be Susan at all but a
      changeling in command of this starship?
          It was one of Worf’s very first assignments in Starfleet where they had met.
      It was on board the Salvador, and he was only an ensign. Though he was
      committed to his duty and happy to be in Starfleet he had felt very lonely on
      that ship. He had no friends whatsoever on board because he was the first
      Klingon in Starfleet and prejudice humans had toward his race still ran high at
      that time.
         That was when he had met Susan, she was the Salvador’s first officer. That
      was a large ship and there were several others under her command but she
      took special attention to Worf’s problems. She became the one friend in all of
      Starfleet he had, and soon much more. They were together for two years, and
      even after they separated she personally arranged for him to be transferred to
      the Enterprise, the flagship which everyone wanted. All his adventures and life
      long friends he met on the Enterprise was thanks to her and for that he was
      eternally grateful. 
          However, Worf was so wrapped up in thought as he stood in front of the
      access panel that it took him by suprise when the cargo bay doors opened and
      two men entered. He quickly leaped into the darkness behind one of the
      containers in the cargo bay. But he had forgot to turn off the computer and the
      two men that entered soon noticed. They walked up to the access panel with
      puzzled faces, it was only when he saw them reach for their comm badges did
      Worf leap out of the shadows.
          Worf had the element of suprise and that was all he needed. The two men in
      the cargo bay could not even say one word, in a matter of seconds Worf had
      overpowered them and they were unconscious. He took their comm badges
      and dumped the two men into a storage container with  air. He still had an
      excellent image of the map for this ship and knew exactly where to go. He
      opened the hatch for a Jeffries tube and entered with haste, because he knew it
      was only a matter of time before those men awaken and he was found.
                                                            Part XVII
          The second that Rom lost his footing on the chasm of the great pyramid
      several thoughts began to go through his mind. The first of which is how
      stupid he was for not listening to his brother, he was too eager to find the arch
      that he did not realize how dangerous that ledge actually was. He then thought
      about Letta and how he was never going to see her again because his own
      stupidity had caused him to die in a holodeck. He prayed to the prophets and
      that was when a hand grabbed him.
         Quark reached and grabbed his younger brother’s hand in the nick of time
      before the chasm claimed him. This must have been the hundredth time he had
      saved Rom’s life since the years they had been born. Rom was much lighter so
      Quark pulled the smaller Ferengi up with ease.
      “Thank you brother,” Rom gasped trying to catch his breath.
      “Now we are even,” Quark replied “there is a better way down there. The
      Intendant told me about the entrance that her men used on the other side of the
      chasm. I didn’t want to go through with it, that is why I didn’t mention it
      before. But now that you say the arch maybe down there…” his voice trailed
      off as he made for the other end of the chasm.
          When they finally entered the great pyramid Quark saw that the inside of it
      was no more pleasant than the unforgiving desert outside. It was almost as hot
      inside as it was outside, plus there was very little light. The air seemed damp
      and the halls reeked of an unpleasant smell. For once Quark was glad Ferengi
      had heightened hearing and not heightened smell.
         From what little light that did enter the pyramid Quark saw that they were in
      a narrow hallway. Both the floor and walls were filled with dirt and looked
      very unsightly. The hallway seemed to stretch out as far as Quark could see,
      there were also some ancient writings on the walls. Quark did not bother with
      it, but Rom seemed very interested and began studying it with his tricorder.
      “This seems to be the access panel for the computer in here,” said Rom reading
      the data from his tricorder “If only I can find a way to activate it we might get
      some light and then some answers from this place.”
      “Activate it?” Quark asked obviously annoyed ” Would you leave damned wall
      alone and help me find the arch.”
      “Just one minute, Quark”
          Quark was growing ever impatient and was ready to leave his brother to that
      wall when something happened. The writing on the wall began to change from
      stone to bright lights. Then Quark saw the entire hallway light up as the walls
      seemed to come alive with bright lights. It was like one giant computer all
      around them. 
         Then something even more incredible began to happen, the walls directly in
      front of the two Ferengi began to move. The opened like a doorway into
      another chamber of the pyramid. Quark did not know what was beyond the
      doors only that it was huge and created a bright almost blinding light. He had
      to know, so he entered this newly opened chamber.
         When his eyes finally adjusted to the light and he could see the entire
      chamber, the image took his breath away. She was right, it truly was the
      greatest of treasures. There were jewels, silver, works of art, precious ores but
      most of all there was Latinum. Mountains and mountains of pure Latinum!
      Never in his life, or in a holosuite or even in his wildest dreams did Quark
      imagine seeing such treasures.
          Even Rom seemed similarly awe-struck by all this wealth. “Glad I activated
      it,” is all he could say. 
      “Rom, you know the woman we met here that looked just like Kira,” Quark
      said.
      “The Intendant?”
      “She is all I could ever ask for in a woman. She has Kira’s body which I have
      been in love with ever since I knew her but in every other sense she is just like
      me. Intelligent, Cunning, Devious, greedy for money and power. If I had her
      and all this treasure it would be…”
      “It’s not real Quark” Rom cut him off “She is not real, this treasure is not real.
      None of this is real, and even if you could stay here all your life you will never
      be happy knowing that.”
          Quark just smiled at his brother and then said  “You know you could be very
      intelligent at times. You are right and don’t worry it was just a passing
      thought.I guess you can’t always have what you want.” He then put his arm
      over his brother’s shoulder and said “Now let’s go find that arch, I have a
      feeling it’s somewhere around here.”
      And it was.
                                                           Part XVIII
          When Worf left the Barkman’s torpedo storage room he left behind three
      unconscious ensigns and an unconscious Lt.Commander with a broken arm.
      Worf did not wish to break his arm, but the Brealian was stubborn and Worf
      was out of pateicnce, anyway he was sure a little surgery would make that
      behometh as good as new. 
          Worf also left all of the Barkman’s one hundered photon torpedoes in sleep
      mode. This was the mode torpedoes were placed in when the starship was
      docked at starbase for maintenance or repair, so some of them could not
      accidentally go off. Now there was no way the Barkman could launch it’s
      torpedoes until they came out of sleep mode, which was a good thirty-six
      hours. This required a Captain’s authorization or a Prefix code, and Worf being
      the Strategic Operations Officer for DS9 had many starships’ Prefix codes in
      his head, including the Barkman’s.
          A Miranda-Class starship like the Barkman most powerful weapon was it’s
      twin torpedo launchers on an arch at the end of the saucer section. However
      the ship still had phasers it could use, if the torpedoes were not functional, like
      now. The only way to remove a starship’s phasers was to take it out it’s warp
      core thought Worf as he made his way to Main Engineering.
         When Worf finally arrived at Main Engineering, he opened the Jeffries tube
      hatch and looked out, and saw his fears were confirmed. Engineering was
      much more crowded than the torpedo room, there were at least fifteen people
      in this room and they all stood between him and the Barkman’s warp core.
      There was no way he could take out all these people, no matter how good he
      was with a phaser and hand-to-hand combat.
           Then Worf got a new plan. If he could fire a light phaser beam at the warp
      core, he might be able to trick the computer to believing there was a warp core
      breach and it would automatically shut down the warp core. Time was not on
      his side, so Worf took his phaser, aimed for the warp core, and waited for a
      clean shot.
          For a while he did not get that clean shot, because he was quiet a distance
      from the warp core. There were always Ensigns or Engineers in his way, then
      an ensign moved and he had the shot. Worf was about to press the trigger,
      when a familiar voice went through the ships’ communications.
      “Intruder Alert, Repeat Intruder Alert. Seal Warp Core, Repeat Seal Warp
      Core,” came the voice of Captain Susan Itrail and the ships’ computer
      responded by placing a forcefield around the warp core.
          Worf cursed in anger, he thought it would take them longer to figure out that
      he was on board and even longer to figure out his plan to disable the
      Barkman’s weapons systems. Then he realized the fault was with him for
      underestimating Susan Itrail whose intelligence and cunning he had known so
      intimately. He quickly closed the hatch and made his way through the Jeffries
      tube. 
         Worf hoped to make it to another cargo bay or a room with communications
      where he could call the Mahaweli to the rescue. He was a big even for a
      Klingon so it was hard to navigate in this narrow tube, but Worf crawled as
      fast he could. Then suddenly he saw gas began to enter the Jeffries tube. She
      knew exactly where I was, yes defiantly a mistake underestimating her he
      thought as consciousness began to leave him.
                                                                  Part XIX
           When Worf awoke he found himself on a bio-bed in the Barkman’s sickbay.
      He quickly rose to his feet and made for the exit, but he did not move more
      than few feet when he hit the forcefield and was thrown back. He grimaced in
      pain and for not anticipating that forcefield being there He struggled back to
      his feet and soon a bald-headed man in a medical uniform come into his view.
          Worf had seen him before on many starships including the Enterprise-E, and
      on Deep Space Nine as well. He was only a hologram that was supposed to
      take the place of a real starship doctor should something happen to him. Worf
      wondered where the Barkmans’ real doctor was and why Susan had left only a
      hologram with him in sickbay.
      “I am glad to see you are awake, that was surprisingly quick considering the
      strength of the toxins you inhaled,”  the hologram said in an almost oblivious
      tone. “Now how do you feel?”
      “You are a hologram,” Worf replied.
      “How perceptive. Are Klingons always this quick to catch on?”
      “Where is the Barkman’s real doctor?” Worf asked with an urgency in his
      voice.
      “Let’s just say Captain Itrail relieved him off duty and then his life. Since then I
      have assumed his role. Though I was designed for only a few days use, I have
      been the Chief Medical Officer on board for over three weeks now. I think I
      have the potential to carry on this role for years if it comes to it. Grow beyond
      my programming, gain new experiences…”
      “Yes, yes I am sure,” Worf said cutting his boasts off “but why did Susan kill
      her CMO?”
      “Let’s just say there came a time to choose,” the doctor replied “between the
      rules of Starfleet or joining Captain Itrail’s little band of rebels. Doctor Varos
      made the wrong choice. If you are smart and want to live I suggest you make
      the right choice or els….”
      “That’s enough out of you,” came a voice and soon Susan Itrail entered the
      sickbay. She confronted the doctor and said “just what do you think you were
      doing?”
      “I was just trying to save the life of my patient, be it from disease, toxins or
      you. Captain”
      “I see,” Itrail replied , then bit her lip and put her hands on her hips “Computer
      deactivate Emergence Medical Hologram and clear the  system’s memory.”
      The holo-doctor was about to protest but instead just vanished into thin air. “I
      rather liked your personality doctor, but you forced me to turn you into a
      mindless medical drone.”
         She then turned to face Worf. He could see that she had changed since the
      time he had known her. She still looked beautiful with short blonde hair, soft
      white skin and deep blue eyes. But there was something in those eyes that was
      not there when he used to love her, a fire. A fire of courage. A fire of
      determination. A fire of evil.
      “Well Worf, I should have known that you were the only one in Starfleet who
      would transport though a nebula’s interference, take down five of my best men,
      and put all of my torpedoes in sleep mode. All for that fucking uniform.”
      “What’s going Susan? Why have you left the Federation? Are you spies for the
      Dominion?”
      “NO!” Itrail yelled back “We are trying to fight the Dominion, we are Maquis
      Worf. And unlike the Federation, we will not sit back and play the peacemaker
      while the Dominion and the Cardies slaughter Federation citizens in the
      DMZ.”
      “I thought the Maquis were all but wiped out,” Worf said almost to himself.
      “Not all Maquis, we will never be wiped out,” Itrail replied “During the war
      with the Klingons, the Barkman was one of several ships sent to patrol the
      Cardassian border. While there I saw that the stories of Federation citizens
      suffering at the hands of the Cardassians were true. So I secretly used the
      Barkman to supply the Maquis with medical equipment and even weapons to
      fight  the Cardassian oppression. But when they recently joined the Dominion I
      saw that it was time to bring the Barkman herself into the fighting.”
      “If you and most of your crew were defecting to join the Maquis, then why did
      you send that fake distress call?”
      “I didn’t want Starfleet on my back. This way they could all think the Barkman
      was destroyed at the hands of the Jem’Hdar. If anything it might compel those
      bastards to finally fight, but I didn’t anticipate anyone receiving that call for
      days. Let alone send a rescue so soon. That’s quiet an enthusiastic bunch you
      have gotten yourself mixed up with on that Cardie space station, Worf.”
      “Susan this is madness…” Worf began.
      “Don’t tell me about madness Worf. The Fedaration\Klingon alliance may have
      been restored but it is still not as strong as the Dominion. Each day more and
      more Dominion ships enter our quadrant and even more are being built in
      Cardassian ship yards. We must strike now before it is too late.”
      “Then take your case to the Federation council, but don’t do this.”
      “I am sorry Worf, but I will make a stand. And I don’t care if I have to face all
      of Starfleet and the Jem’Hdar alone. Now are you with me?” Susan said with a
      smile. “You can have command of the Barkman and me as well if you agree to
      join us. Just think how glorious it will be, just like the old days.”
          Worf just shook his head in denial of her offer. She then nodded in reply as
      well, she had a very sad face as she walked up to a console and punched in
      some commands. The holo-doctor reappeared inside Worf’s forcefield, he had
      a vacant expression his face which proved he was nothing more than a drone
      now. He also had a hypospray in his hand.
      “Don’t bother struggling Worf,” Itrail said “he is a hologram so you can’t touch
      him. Don’t worry it is fast and painless, It is how I killed all the others who
      didn’t want to join me. Be sure to say hello to Kahless for me when you see
      him.”
         She was right, there was nothing he could do to defend himself. Worf’s hands
      just passed though the hologram that was now death for him. The hypospray
      felt cool against his skin and he could almost feel the poison enter his veins.
                                                             Part XX
            Kira drummed her fingers on the command desk in front of her, something
      she had often seen Sisko do when he was upset like she was now. As if the
      problems she had when this day started off were not bad enough, now she had
      another worry, a huge one. It had been twelve hours since the last transmission
      from the Mahaweli, and that could only mean trouble.
         Kira knew there was bound to be interference from the nebula but Dax did
      promise that she would check in every six hours. Not one word in all this time
      could only mean the Mahaweli had run into trouble. Though it was a tough
      little ship, Kira knew that it did not stand any chance against a Jem’Hdar
      fighter or any starship for that matter. She kept telling herself that it must have
      been the nebula preventing communications but deep down she knew there
      was something more.
         Kira thought about sending another runabout or two to the Trinson nebula
      but knew that if there was something in there more powerful than the
      Mahaweli a few more runabouts would make little difference. What she
      needed was a starship. She had already contacted Captain Sisko but he had
      said that the Defiant was literally in two pieces now so there no way it could
      come to the rescue. Kira then sent a general distress call to any Federation or
      allied starship in the vicinity of the Trinson nebula, all she could do now was
      wait for one of them to answer. Until that time, the crew of the Mahaweli were
      on their own.
         Kira still had three padds full of personal reports to fill out but was too tired
      and depressed now, not to mention worried about her people in that nebula.
      She was about to call it a day when suddenly the lights in the ready room went
      black, then just like that they came back on. And went out again, only to light
      up again a few seconds later. She had enough of this and quickly ran out the
      door and into Ops.
      “Report Ensign,” she said as stepped out of her ready room.
      “I don’t understand it Major,” said Nog from his station “It’s like the station’s
      main power seems to be failing. Something is drawing enormous amounts of
      energy, that the power network can’t keep up without moments of blackouts.”
      “That’s all we need now is to be without power,” said Kira frustratingly “Can
      you localize the source of this phenomena that is eating up our power?”
      The Ferengi studied his monitor for a few seconds and finally said “Yes, It’s
      uncle’s bar.”
      “Good, keep trying to compensate for the power failures. Don’t let life support,
      sensors and the defense systems be without power for even a second,” she said
      to Nog then  made her way for the turbolift as  she tapped her comm badge and
      said “Kira to Odo, meet me at Quarks.”
          As Kira walked with haste down the  promenade she thought about what
      could be causing the power failures. Could it be a saboteur? Was this only the
      first part of an eventual Dominion attack on the station? Was the old
      Cardassian power core finally giving away? Or was it simply a publicity stunt
      by that sleazy Ferengi since it was coming from his bar. Whatever it was Kira
      hoped the problem could be solved because if there was ever a time that DS9
      needed to be fully powered and ready for anything it was now.
          Kira entered Quarks to see a lot of unhappy customers, all of Quark’s
      employees not working and Quark himself was not there. She then saw Odo
      and a group of Bajoran security officers near the holosuites. I knew that little
      troll was behind this, thought Kira as she climbed the stairs to meet Odo, when
      I get my hands on him…
      “Major, glad you could join us,” said Odo when he saw her.
      “What’s going on Odo?”
      “Apparently it is this holosuite that is causing all the problems. Witnesses say
      they saw Quark go in hours ago but he never came out.”
      “I need to have a little talk with Quark, can you get it open?” asked Kira with
      the anger apparent in her voice. She knew she might take out her problems on
      Quark but he deserved it.
        In a few moments, the Bajoran technician working on the holosuite finally
      nodded and the doors swooshed open. Inside stood Quark and Rom next to the
      holosuite arch, they were both wearing dirt filled white robes and they both
      seemed very tired. But the moment that Quark saw the anger in Kira’ eyes, his
      eyes lit up in fear. Then Kira saw Quark faint, for no apparent reason other that
      what seemed to be fear of Her! Soon Rom burst into laughter as did Odo’s
      security staff, even Odo let out a chuckle. Then Kira joined in the merriment
      and laughed herself.
      She needed that.
                                                      Part XXI
          “Oh no!” was all Dax could say when she saw the information being
      displayed on her monitor. The data caused her to be flooded by all kind of
      emotions- first disbelief, then fear, then sorrow, and finally courage because it
      was time to act. All this went through her mind in a fraction of a  second and
      so she was more than ready when Bashir posed the question “Jadzia what’s
      wrong?”
      “It’s Worf,” she replied “his vital signs are weakening.”
      “But how could you know?”
      “Before I let Worf beam on board the Barkman, I made him promise to take a
      biometric telemeter that will relay his vital signs to me. Now I can see they are
      falling fast, Julian we must save him, we must leave the Spiderweb.”
      “With all due respect Commander,” said Alvarez joining the conversation “we
      are no match for Barkman. If he is captured they probably have a forcefield
      around him and then they only we can get to him is to defeat a ship that
      out-guns us ten to one.”
      “We have to try,” Jadzia insisted “Isn’t there someway we can use the
      Spiderweb to enhance our weapons.”
      “Raw power from the star could increase our phasers up to four times as
      powerful as they normally are,” Bashir said “but containing that power is the
      problem. Right now we have more than enough, and I am flushing all the
      excess power back through the Spiderweb but if we try to store that power
      instead, it could tax our reserves over the limit and result in chain reactions
      that could destroy the Mahaweli.”
      “We have to try Julian. Worf’s life is at stake,” Dax said “prepare to leave the
      Spiderweb and then Lt.Alvarez set course to intercept the Barkman.”
      “Course laid in,” Alvarez said from his station the fear apparent in his voice.
      “Now charging our reserves,” said Bashir.
         Dax looked at her monitor on the science station and saw their power
      reserves increasing at a quick and steady rate. What they were about to do was
      a risky venture, she would not have done unless Worf was not in danger. Had
      this been another crew, they might have disobeyed her orders since they would
      be putting their lives on the line for someone who willingly walked into
      danger. But she brought a crew she could trust for a reason, soon she saw the
      power levels climb beyond safety limits and the computer chimed in.
      “WARNING-Power reserves above recommended levels. Severing power
      transfer.”
      “Computer allow for power transfer beyond recommended levels,
      Authorization Dax Beta 22917”
      “Authorization verified. Power transferring continuing,” came the unemotional
      female voice.
                                               Part XXII
           At first when Jadzia Dax looked out the window of the runabout all she
      could see was the bright white light of the Trinson sun, but soon it began to
      give way to the beautiful colors of the nebula. This time however she was too
      worried about Worf and afraid for her crew and ship to appreciate the beauty
      of the nebula. Then as Alvarez swung the runabout around she saw it, it
      loomed so large in front of them against the sun. Like a predator waiting for
      it’s prey, the Barkman looked even  more menacing than before.
      “How are those reserves holding up Julian?” she asked.
      “Just barely” came Bashir’s reply.
      “Ok transfer all power to phasers,” Dax said as she put her fingers on the
      weapons console. It was up to her to man tactical in Worf’s absence. She was
      by no means a better shot than Worf, she even doubted she was better than
      Julian or Enrique but they both had their jobs so taking down Barkman was up
      to her.
      “Transferring power to phasers,” Bashir said “She’s all yours.”
      “Ok hold her steady Enrique,” Dax said as she tried to aim the phasers visually
      at the Barkman.
      “We are at all stop now Commander,”
      “Now firing,” Dax replied and then saw the bright red beam lance out of the
      front of the Mahaweli and strike it’s target. The phasers hit the aft section of
      the Barkman and created a spectacular explosion on the hull. The starship then
      immediately turned around, sensing their presence and came in for an attack of
      it’s own.
      “Evasive maneuvers Enrique, try if you can get me under the hull.”
      “Aye sir,”came his reply and the Mahaweli leapt forward, but Dax soon saw
      phasers come out of the starship to which she cried “Hard to starboard,” and
      the runabout again skewed to the left  knocking everyone of their feet. 
          Though she had to get up to find her seat, Dax was grateful because the
      Barkman had missed. While a starship could sustain multiple phaser blasts, a
      runabout with overloading power systems could probably be destroyed in one
      shot. She knew she could keep punching holes in their hull all day, but Worf
      had no time left. She had to get access to the warp nacelles underneath the
      huge starship , if she ever hope to do any real damage.
        Almost as if he read  her mind, Alvarez said “Trying once again to get
      underneath the  Barkman, sir”.
      “This time hold your course, no matter what,” Dax said “I will deal with their
      phasers.”
      “It’s a good thing they are not firing torpedoes or else we would be dead meat,”
      Bashir said to himself “I think Worf had something to do with that.”
         Once again the Mahaweli made a pass at the Barkman, and once again the
      Barkman shot phasers at them, only this time Alvarez held the runabout on it’s
      course. It was up to Dax to take care of the phasers. She looked for phaser
      beams that had made it through the interference and came close to the
      Mahaweli, and then used the runabouts phasers to counter them by firing
      directly at the projectiles. If she hit, the two beams would cancel each other
      out.  The probelm was, she too  had to fire manually the nebula’s interference
      and it became like shooting through the eye of a needle.
        On her monitor Dax a swarm of lines that represented the Barkman’s phasers.
      Shooting wildly because they did not know where to hit, she waited for the
      lines that came too close to the runabout before she fired.  Then she saw two
      lines coming dangerously close to hit their vessel,  she fired the Mahaweli’s
      phasers and it struck the first beam. They both canceled each other out. 
         Then Dax aimed and fired at the second phaser beam, but this one was
      coming in at a difficult angle. Her counter-phaser beam missed that phaser
      beam and it continued on to it’s target- The Mahaweli. For a split second she
      raised her head and looked at Bashir and Alvarez, they were both busy with
      their work. They did not even see death come in the form of that phaser beam.
      They had put their life in her hands, as did Worf. And she was not about to let
      any of them down.
        She aimed and fired once more and this time it struck. The explosion from
      the two phasers canceling each other out was so close that it produced a
      blinding light and for a few seconds Dax could not see where anything was
      outside the viewscreen. When the light finally subsided, she saw the giant
      saucer section of the Barkman loom all around them above. They were
      underneath the starship.
       “Okay Commander, we are here,” said Alvarez.
      “Firing phasers,” Dax replied and pressed the key which caused the phaser
      beam to lance out and strike out at the warp nacelle of the Barkman. The
      nacelle exploded in a brilliant spectral of light that seemed to set the whole
      nebula ablaze. Without  power to support it, the Barkman tilted to the side and
      began to drift in the nebula like a derelict. The Mahaweli had won the battle.
                                                            Part XXIII
      “Julian, you should be able to get a transporter lock on Worf now,” Dax said
      from her station.
      “I have it, Energizing.”
         Soon Worf appeared on the transporter pad but he was not conscious so he
      just  staggered to the floor and collapsed. Bashir and Dax quickly ran to his
      side and Dax took him in her arms and lifted up his head. Bashir took out his
      tricorder and began scanning.
      “How is he?” Dax asked desperately.
      “He is not breathing and I am barely getting a heartbeat,” Bashir said still
      trying to gather as much data as possible  “looks like there is a toxin in his
      system. His body needs oxygen, I have to get his respiration going.”
        Bashir then reached in to his medikit and pulled out a hypospray. “This is the
      most powerful stimulant I have, it is banned by Starfleet Medical but I keep a
      small batch for emergencies. There is a forty-six percent chance it could kill
      him instead of stimulating his lungs. But if he does not take it he will die for
      sure.”
         Dax just nodded and Bashir injected the hypospray. Then the waiting began
      and minutes began to pass. During this time all Jadzia Dax could think about
      was Worf. Not the overloading engines, not the menacing starship just outside,
      and not the nebula. Only Worf mattered and she held him in her hands without
      saying a word or even making a sound. The rest of the crew knew better than
      to disturb her. 
         Then Worf began to breathe, slowly and barely audible at first but it became
      heavier in a few seconds. His breathing was the only sound heard on board the
      Mahaweli and only when his eyes fluttered open did everyone cheer.
      “You are the most beautiful sight I have ever seen in my life,” he said as he
      looked up Jadzia.
      “I though I’d lost you”, she breathed.
      “I have been dead before,” he said with a smile “It will take more than some
      Maquis poison to bring me down.”
      “We still need to get you back to DS9 Worf,” Bashir said “there maybe side
      effects of the toxin I can’t treat without my infirmary.”
      “Well I don’t think the Barkman is going anywhere,” Dax said “Lt.Alvarez
      contact the nearest Federation starship to come pick up our Maquis prisoners.
      Then set course for DS9. We are going home”
      “Yes sir, with pleasure” Alvarez replied.
                                                           Part XIV
              It had been days since their ordeal in the Trinson nebula and Bashir sat
      alone in a table at Quark’s thinking about what had happened. There were
      many things on his mind, but most of all he thought about the Barkman’s
      captain Susan Itrail. A Klingon battle cruiser came and rescued the crew of the
      Barkman a few hours after the Mahaweli had left them, but they found Susan
      Itrail dead. She had killed herself, and she had said she died for the Federation
      and called for them to declare war on the Dominion before it was too late.
         Bashir knew that there was a good amount of logic in Susan Itrail’s dying
      wish. For one thing he himself had seen how Federation citizens suffered in
      the Cardassian Demilitarized zone. Also he knew the Dominion presence in
      the alpha quadrant was growing ever stronger, his statistical probabilities told
      him that soon they would be too powerful to defeat even if there was war. His
      thoughts were interrupted when Quark walked up to his table.
      “A word with you Doctor?” he asked.
      “Yes Quark, what is it.”
      “My holosuites had a recent malfunction, because of which I discovered
      several interesting programs that had one thing in common. Kira. Not Kira as
      we know her, very different and calling herself the Intendant.They were all
      your programs. Care to explain.”
         Bashir just smiled, almost flushing, then confessed “About three years ago,
      Major Kira and I were taken to a mirror universe through a runabout accident.
      In that  universe I met Kira’s duplicate and she was the Intendant. She was so
      fascinating and unique that I couldn’t get her out of my mind for months. I
      created several holosuite programs with her in it. Though I have gotten her out
      of my system now, can I say the same for you?”
      “She is fascinating to see the least, isn’t she Doctor. Tell me about her.”
      And Bashir did.
           Meanwhile on Starbase 93, Worf stood on the observation deck staring into
      space.  But the stars was not what he had his eye on.The torpedo was shot out
      of the starbase in blaze of fire, and Worf watched it travel into the depths of
      space. Even when the torpedo was long gone, the trail of fire remained for
      several minutes, and Worf stared at it and thought about Susan Itrail whose
      remains were on that torpedo. His thoughts too were suddenly interrupted by a
      familiar voice.
      “She will be surely missed, won’t she Mr.Worf.”
      “Captain,” Worf said in amazement “Captain Picard, what are you doing
      here?”
      “I was a good friend of Susan’s too Mr.Worf. As a matter of fact, it was she
      who recommended you for service on the Enterprise.”
      “I know,” Worf nodded ” and you are right she will be missed. So how have
      you been, how is everybody. I haven’t seen the crew since that encounter with
      the Borg we had.”
      “Everyone is fine. Commander Riker has yet to return from that undercover
      mission on Romulus but I am sure he will. Other than that everything is
      okay….” Picard’s voice trailed off and then he decided to stop with the ‘small
      talk’ and say what was really on his mind. “You know Worf, Susan was right
      about one thing, there will be war and soon. The Dominion grows ever
      stronger, and we are losing the peace. You be sure and remind your Captain
      Sisko of that.”
      “I will sir.”
      “Good,” Picard said with a smile. “Now let’s go have some tea and….. prune
      juice was it? We have a lot of catching up to do.”
      Did you enjoy this story? Did you think it was utter crap? Let the author know
      about it: Email-Falc2199@aol.com